README.md, before:

# ArduinoUniqueID

This Library gets the Unique Serial ID from the AVR Microcontroller and ESP Microcontroller.

# AVR Microcontroller

## Unique Serial ID - Hidden Serial Number

The datasheet of the Atmega328pb chip has a section 'Serial Number' how explain every chip have a unique device ID with 10 bytes. <br/>

The datasheet of the Atmega328p chip does not say anything about the serial number, but I tested using the same Z-pointer Address on the datasheet of the Atmega328pb. <br/>

Apparently, the chip Atmega328p have a hidden serial number with 9 bytes, and others AVR Microcontroller maybe too, like the table below. <br/>

| Z-pointer Address | Atmega328pb | Atmega328p |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| 0x000E | Byte 0 | Byte 0 |
| 0x000F | Byte 1 | Byte 1 |
| 0x0010 | Byte 2 | Byte 2 |
| 0x0011 | Byte 3 | Byte 3 |
| 0x0012 | Byte 4 | Byte 4 |
| 0x0013 | Byte 5 | Byte 5 |
| 0x0014 | Byte 6 | - |
| 0x0015 | Byte 7 | Byte 6 |
| 0x0016 | Byte 8 | Byte 7 |
| 0x0017 | Byte 9 | Byte 8 |

## Tested Microcontroller

* Atmega328pb - 10 bytes
* Atmega328p - 9 bytes
* Atmega2560 - 9 bytes
* Attiny85 - 9 bytes

# ESP Microcontroller

ESP microcontroller has basically two versions, ESP8266 and ESP32, each one has a specific function to request the chip id. <br/>

* ESP8266 - ESP.getChipId() - 4 bytes
* ESP32 - ESP.getEfuseMac() - 6 bytes

| UniqueID | ESP8266 | ESP32 |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| Byte 0| Byte 0 | Byte 5 |
| Byte 1| Byte 1 | Byte 4 |
| Byte 2| Byte 2 | Byte 3 |
| Byte 3| Byte 3 | Byte 2 |
| Byte 4| - | Byte 1 |
| Byte 5| - | Byte 0 |

To make the variable UniqueID8 to work propably the library uses the default bytes to 0x00. <br/>

| UniqueID8 | ESP8266 | ESP32 |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| Byte 0| 0x00 | 0x00 |
| Byte 1| 0x00 | 0x00 |
| Byte 2| 0x00 | Byte 5 |
| Byte 3| 0x00 | Byte 4 |
| Byte 4| Byte 0 | Byte 3 |
| Byte 5| Byte 1 | Byte 2 |
| Byte 6| Byte 2 | Byte 1 |
| Byte 7| Byte 3 | Byte 0 |

## Tested Microcontroller

* ESP8266 - 4 bytes
* ESP32 - 6 bytes

## Dependencies

This library only supports AVR Microcontroller and ESP Microcontroller.

## Installation

* Install the library by [Using the Library Manager](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries#toc3)
* **OR** by [Importing the .zip library](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries#toc4) using either the [master](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/archive/1.0.5.zip) or one of the [releases](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/releases) ZIP files.

## Examples

The library comes with [examples](examples). After installing the library you need to restart the Arduino IDE before they can be found under **File > Examples > ArduinoUniqueID**.

---

# Reference

## Include Library

```c
#include <ArduinoUniqueID.h>
```

### Variable: UniqueID & UniqueIDsize

UniqueID has UniqueIDsize bytes array of the Unique Serial ID.

```c
for(size_t i = 0; i < UniqueIDsize; i++)
  Serial.println(UniqueID[i], HEX);
```

### Method: UniqueIDdump

Print the hexadecimal bytes of the Unique Serial ID on the Stream.

```c
void UniqueIDdump(Stream);
```

### Variable: UniqueID8

UniqueID8 has the last 8 bytes array of the Unique Serial ID.

```c
for(size_t i = 0; i < 8; i++)
  Serial.println(UniqueID8[i], HEX);
```

### Method: UniqueID8dump

Print the last eight hexadecimal bytes of the Unique Serial ID on the Stream.

```c
void UniqueID8dump(Stream);
```

Do you like this library? Please [star this project on GitHub](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/stargazers)!

Commit message:

Support Atmel SAM3X8E (Arduino Due)
ArduinoUniqueID now reads the first 128 bits from flash if it's the SAM-series.

Inspiration: https://gist.github.com/pingud98/251fcf22d5c74c2af8515abdd382fd1e and http://forum.arduino.cc/index.php?topic=289190.0

Atmel SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 datasheet: http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/devicedoc/atmel-11057-32-bit-cortex-m3-microcontroller-sam3x-sam3a_datasheet.pdf

README.md, after:

# ArduinoUniqueID

This Library gets the Unique Serial ID from the AVR Microcontroller and ESP Microcontroller.

# Atmel AVR Microcontroller

## Unique Serial ID - Hidden Serial Number

The datasheet of the Atmega328pb chip has a section 'Serial Number' how explain every chip have a unique device ID with 10 bytes. <br/>

The datasheet of the Atmega328p chip does not say anything about the serial number, but I tested using the same Z-pointer Address on the datasheet of the Atmega328pb. <br/>

Apparently, the chip Atmega328p have a hidden serial number with 9 bytes, and others AVR Microcontroller maybe too, like the table below. <br/>

| Z-pointer Address | Atmega328pb | Atmega328p |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| 0x000E | Byte 0 | Byte 0 |
| 0x000F | Byte 1 | Byte 1 |
| 0x0010 | Byte 2 | Byte 2 |
| 0x0011 | Byte 3 | Byte 3 |
| 0x0012 | Byte 4 | Byte 4 |
| 0x0013 | Byte 5 | Byte 5 |
| 0x0014 | Byte 6 | - |
| 0x0015 | Byte 7 | Byte 6 |
| 0x0016 | Byte 8 | Byte 7 |
| 0x0017 | Byte 9 | Byte 8 |

## Tested Microcontroller

* Atmega328pb - 10 bytes
* Atmega328p - 9 bytes
* Atmega2560 - 9 bytes
* Attiny85 - 9 bytes

# Atmel SAM ARM Microcontroller
Atmel SAM3X8E is used in Arduino Due. The Unique Identifier is located in the first 128 bits of the Flash memory mapping. So, at the address 0x400000-0x400003.
"Each device integrates its own 128-bit unique identifier. These bits are factory configured and cannot be changed by the user. The ERASE pin has no effect on the unique identifier." (http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/devicedoc/atmel-11057-32-bit-cortex-m3-microcontroller-sam3x-sam3a_datasheet.pdf)

## Tested Microcontroller

* Atmel SAM3X8E ARM Cortex-M3 - 16 bytes

# Espressif ESP Microcontroller

ESP microcontroller has basically two versions, ESP8266 and ESP32, each one has a specific function to request the chip id. <br/>

* ESP8266 - ESP.getChipId() - 4 bytes
* ESP32 - ESP.getEfuseMac() - 6 bytes

| UniqueID | ESP8266 | ESP32 |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| Byte 0| Byte 0 | Byte 5 |
| Byte 1| Byte 1 | Byte 4 |
| Byte 2| Byte 2 | Byte 3 |
| Byte 3| Byte 3 | Byte 2 |
| Byte 4| - | Byte 1 |
| Byte 5| - | Byte 0 |

To make the variable UniqueID8 to work propably the library uses the default bytes to 0x00. <br/>

| UniqueID8 | ESP8266 | ESP32 |
| :-------: | :------: | :------:|
| Byte 0| 0x00 | 0x00 |
| Byte 1| 0x00 | 0x00 |
| Byte 2| 0x00 | Byte 5 |
| Byte 3| 0x00 | Byte 4 |
| Byte 4| Byte 0 | Byte 3 |
| Byte 5| Byte 1 | Byte 2 |
| Byte 6| Byte 2 | Byte 1 |
| Byte 7| Byte 3 | Byte 0 |

## Tested Microcontroller

* ESP8266 - 4 bytes
* ESP32 - 6 bytes

## Dependencies

This library only supports AVR Microcontroller and ESP Microcontroller.

## Installation

* Install the library by [Using the Library Manager](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries#toc3)
* **OR** by [Importing the .zip library](https://www.arduino.cc/en/Guide/Libraries#toc4) using either the [master](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/archive/1.0.5.zip) or one of the [releases](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/releases) ZIP files.

## Examples

The library comes with [examples](examples). After installing the library you need to restart the Arduino IDE before they can be found under **File > Examples > ArduinoUniqueID**.

---

# Reference

## Include Library

```c
#include <ArduinoUniqueID.h>
```

### Variable: UniqueID & UniqueIDsize

UniqueID has UniqueIDsize bytes array of the Unique Serial ID.

```c
for(size_t i = 0; i < UniqueIDsize; i++)
  Serial.println(UniqueID[i], HEX);
```

### Method: UniqueIDdump

Print the hexadecimal bytes of the Unique Serial ID on the Stream.

```c
void UniqueIDdump(Stream);
```

### Variable: UniqueID8

UniqueID8 has the last 8 bytes array of the Unique Serial ID.

```c
for(size_t i = 0; i < 8; i++)
  Serial.println(UniqueID8[i], HEX);
```

### Method: UniqueID8dump

Print the last eight hexadecimal bytes of the Unique Serial ID on the Stream.

```c
void UniqueID8dump(Stream);
```

Do you like this library? Please [star this project on GitHub](https://github.com/ricaun/ArduinoUniqueID/stargazers)!
